---
title: Migrate to v2.0
sidebar_label: '2.0'
---

## Configuration

### Beemo configuration has moved

Previously, configuration was either defined in a root `configs/beemo.js` file, or a `beemo` block
within `package.json`. Configuration must now be defined in `.config/beemo.ts` (or `.js`, `.json`,
`.yaml`, etc). Package level config has been removed entirely.

```ts title=".config/beemo.ts"
export default {
	module: '<config-module>',
};
```

### Driver overrides have been removed from `package.json`

The ability to configure drivers in a `beemo.<driver>` block within `package.json` has been removed.
Instead, configure the driver at `.config/beemo/<driver>.ts` (or `.js`).

```json title="package.json"
// Before
{
	"beemo": {
		"eslint": {
			"rules": {
				"no-console": "off"
			}
		}
	}
}
```

```ts title=".config/beemo/eslint.ts"
// After
import { ESLintConfig } from '@beemo/driver-eslint';

const config: ESLintConfig = {
	rules: {
		'no-console': 'off',
	},
};

export default config;
```

### Drivers configuration structure has changed

When configuring drivers with the `drivers` setting, either supply a list of names.

```ts title=".config/beemo.ts"
export default {
	module: '<config-module>',
	drivers: ['babel', 'jest'],
};
```

Or a tuple with a name and an options object.

```ts title=".config/beemo.ts"
export default {
	module: '<config-module>',
	drivers: [
		'babel',
		[
			'jest',
			{
				env: {
					NODE_ENV: 'test',
				},
			},
		],
	],
};
```

Or if you need more control, an object of names that map to booleans (enable or disable the driver),
or an options object.

```ts title=".config/beemo.ts"
export default {
	module: '<config-module>',
	drivers: {
		babel: true,
		jest: {
			env: {
				NODE_ENV: 'test',
			},
		},
	},
};
```

The old format of mixing strings and objects within a list is no longer supported. For more
information on these formats,
[check out the official Boost documentation on plugins](https://boostlib.dev/docs/plugin#configuration-files).

## Beemo

### File and type have moved

The `Beemo` class instance is no longer default exported from `@beemo/core`. It can now be accessed
from the named `Tool` class export, or the `BeemoTool` type alias export.

```ts
// Before
import Beemo from '@beemo/core';
```

```ts
// After
import { Tool } from '@beemo/core';
```

### Logging has been removed

All logging methods have been removed. Use the native `console` instead.

```ts
// Before
beemo.log();
beemo.log.error();
beemo.console.log();
```

```ts
// After
console.log();
console.error();
```

### Workspace methods have moved

Methods relating to project workspaces have moved to the `project` class property. The APIs of these
methods may have also changed, so please refer to their TypeScript types.

```ts
// Before
beemo.getWorkspacePaths();
```

```ts
// After
tool.project.getWorkspacePaths();
```

### Driver and script management has changed

Drivers and scripts have moved to a registry based pattern, resulting in changes to the `Tool` API.

```ts
// Before
beemo.getPlugin('script', 'build');
beemo.getPlugin('driver', 'babel');
beemo.isPluginEnabled('driver', 'typescript');
```

```ts
// After
tool.scriptRegistry.get('build');
tool.driverRegistry.get('babel');
tool.driverRegistry.isRegistered('typescript');
```

### Driver and script modules must export a factory function and have a name property

If you're using custom driver and script modules, they must now default export a function that
returns a class instance, instead of exporting a class declaration. Furthermore, all driver and
script instances must have a `name` property (which is the name of the NPM module).

```ts
// Before
export default class CustomDriver extends Driver<CustomConfig, CustomOptions> {}
```

```ts
// After
class CustomDriver extends Driver<CustomConfig, CustomOptions> {
	readonly name = 'npm-module-name-driver';
}

export default (options: CustomOptions) => new CustomDriver(options);
```

## Contexts

With the migration from `yargs` to [@boost/args](https://boostlib.dev/docs/args), the args object
structure has changed, as well as any terminology.

### Options are now located in multiple locations

Options are either known or unknown, depending on the CLI command being ran. Known options are now
accessed from `args.options`, while unknown options from `args.unknown`. Since unknown options are
well, unknown, we have no information on what type of value they should be, so all unknown option
values are _always_ strings.

```ts
// Before
context.args.clean;
```

```ts
// After
context.args.options.clean;
context.args.unknown.clean;
```

To avoid having to check both of these locations, a new `Context#getRiskyOption()` method has been
provided. It will return the known option if it exists, otherwise unknown, and `null` if neither
exists.

```ts
context.getRiskyOption('clean');
```

However, this method is risky, as denoted by its name. For unknown options, empty string values are
converted to `true`, as they are treated as flags (`--clean`). If you want to avoid the conversion,
pass `true` as a 2nd argument.

### Positional args are now referred to as params

The title is self-explanatory. Args are now called params, and the argv list is now accessed from
`args.params` instead of `args._`.

```ts
// Before
context.args._;
context.addArg('./src');
context.addArgs(['foo', 'bar']);
```

```ts
// After
context.args.params;
context.addParam('./src');
context.addParams(['foo', 'bar']);
```

## Drivers

### Jest: Peer dependency on Babel has been removed

The `@beemo/driver-babel` peer dependency has been removed from the Jest driver's `package.json`,
but the Babel config will still be automatically generated when running Jest if the Babel driver has
been enabled.

If you're using Babel to transform files within your Jest tests, be sure to install both driver
dependencies manually.

### TypeScript: The `--reference-workspaces` option has been removed

In previous versions, the `--reference-workspaces` CLI option would automatically generate project
references in the root `tsconfig.json`, and a `tsconfig.json` in each package folder. Going forward,
root project references will now be linked automatically if a project is workspaces enabled (Yarn
workspaces, etc) instead of requiring a CLI option.

### TypeScript: Package project reference linking has moved to a new command

As mentioned above, project references were automatically linked when running the TypeScript driver
with `--reference-workspaces`. However, this process was rather heavy and only needed to be ran when
adding or removing packages, or changing dependencies. Because of this, package-level project
reference linking has moved to a new command, `beemo typescript:sync-project-refs`.

This new command will only update the `tsconfig.json` within each package, as the root
`tsconfig.json` is still updated when running `beemo typescript`.

## Scripts

### Script arguments are now based on `@boost/args`

To support the new functionality provided by [@boost/args](https://boostlib.dev/docs/args#parsing),
the `args()` method has been renamed to `parse()`, and the return type/structure has changed to
`ParserOptions`. Furthermore, the 2nd argument to `execute()` has updated to the type/structure of
`Arguments`.

```ts
// Before
class BuildScript extends Script {
	args() {
		return {
			string: ['workspaces'],
			default: {
				workspaces: '',
			},
		};
	}
}
```

```ts
// After
class BuildScript extends Script {
	parse() {
		return {
			options: {
				workspaces: {
					description: 'Glob pattern to find workspaces',
					type: 'string',
				},
			},
		};
	}
}
```

### Script tasks have been removed

The `executeTasks()` and `task()` methods have been removed. If you would like similar
functionality, we suggest using the [@boost/pipeline](https://boostlib.dev/docs/pipeline) package
directly.

## TypeScript

Only including important type changes.

- Migrated `Arguments` to `@boost/args` structure.
- Removed the generic from `Tool` (formerly `Beemo`).
- Removed:
  - `BeemoPluginRegistry`
  - `ExecuteType`
  - `ExecuteQueue`
  - `StdioType`
